# Cuttlegame

Play [RetroArch](https://www.retroarch.com/)-compatible games online with friends via VNC server.

VNC does not support sound, and its gaming latency is questionable, so you should use this for turn-based games like Pokemon rather than real-time games like Mario Kart.

# Usage

This example loads a Pokemon Emerald ROM file from the local `roms` directory using the `vbam` (VisualBoyAdvance-M) emulator core, storing saves in the local `saves` directory:

```sh
docker run -it \
    -p 8000:80 \
    -v "$(pwd)/roms:/roms" \
    -v "$(pwd)/saves:/saves" \
    -e CORE=vbam \
    -e ROM=pokemon_emerald.gba \
    mplewis/cuttlegame
```

To connect, open the browser link that appears in your terminal:

```
 a88888b.            dP     dP   dP
d8'   `88            88     88   88
88        dP    dP d8888P d8888P 88 .d8888b. .d8888b. .d8888b. 88d8b.d8b. .d8888b.
88        88    88   88     88   88 88ooood8 88'  `88 88'  `88 88'`88'`88 88ooood8
Y8.   .88 88.  .88   88     88   88 88.  ... 88.  .88 88.  .88 88  88  88 88.  ...
 Y88888P' `88888P'   dP     dP   dP `88888P' `8888P88 `88888P8 dP  dP  dP `88888P'
                                                  .88
                                              d8888P

Connect to your Cuttlegame instance in your web browser:
http://localhost:8000?scale=local&password=m43MV0J5mNZgwSoi
```

## Controls

Controls are defined in [retroarch.cfg](rootfs/root/.config/retroarch/retroarch.cfg):

Controller Button | Keyboard Binding
---|---
Up | W
Left | A
Down | S
Right | D
L | Q
R | E
A | J
B | H
X | U
Y | Y
Start | M
Select | N

To customize the controls, create your own copy of [retroarch.cfg](https://retropie.org.uk/docs/RetroArch/), change the controls (`input_player1_a = "x"`, etc.) and mount it into `/config/retroarch.cfg`. This will override all other Retroarch configuration as well.

## Mounts

* `/roms`: Mount your ROM files into this directory inside the container.
* `/saves`: When RetroArch saves your game, it will write the save files to this directory inside the container. Mount this into your local filesystem to keep the save data after the container exits.
* `/config`: If this directory contains `retroarch.cfg`, it will replace the default config. Use this to customize RetroArch settings and controls.

## Environment Variables

* `CORE`: The RetroArch core to use. Run `docker run -it mplewis/cuttlegame list-cores.sh` to list all available cores.
* `ROM`: The ROM file to load. For example, if you use `ROM=pokemon_emerald.gba`, RetroArch will load `/roms/pokemon_emerald.gba`.
* `PASSWORD`: Optional. The VNC server password. If you do not provide one, a password will be autogenerated for you and displayed in the console.
* `RESOLUTION`: Optional, defaults to 480x320 (2xGBA scale). The screen resolution of the server. Pick something that matches your console's render resolution for best results and to minimize bandwidth usage.
* `VERBOSE`: Optional. Set to `true` to enable verbose RetroArch logging. Useful for debugging why your game won't load.

# Acknowledgments

Huge thanks to [fcwu/docker-ubuntu-vnc-desktop](https://github.com/fcwu/docker-ubuntu-vnc-desktop) for helping me figure out how this all works.
